[MUSIC]
Have you ever worked on a project
that was developing over time?
So you occasionally created copies of
the work in case you wanted to go back to
an earlier version.
Maybe you were working in a team and
every day you'd email a part of
the work to the rest of the team.
And then the other members on your
team would add their own work, and
send it out to the whole team too.
Or maybe you've worked on a very complex
project, that kept changing directions.
And you felt that some of the things
that got removed one day,
might have to be added later on.
So anytime you're about to
delete a significant part,
you made a copy of the whole thing,
just in case.
If any of this sounds familiar, you've
already worked on the most primitive form
of version control,
keeping historical copies.
These copies let you see what the project
was like before, and go back to that
version if you end up deciding that
the latest changes were wrong.
They also let you see the progress
of the changes over time, and
maybe even help you understand
why a change was made.
We say that this is primitive because
it's very manual and not very detailed.
First, you need to
remember to make the copy.
Second, you usually make
a copy of the whole thing,
even if you're only
changing one small part.
And third, even if you're emailing
your changes to your colleagues,
it might be hard to figure out at the end
who did what, and more importantly,
why they did it.
But that said, the principle behind
version control is the same.
It lets us keep track of
the changes in our files.
These files can be code,
images, configuration, or
even a video editing project,
whatever it is you're working with.
Throughout this course, we'll see the many
ways that Git helps us keep track of our
changes, and also how we can use it to
collaborate with others or avert changes.
We'll use a bunch of terms that have
special meanings in the world of version
control, but
don't let those intimidate you.
In the end, all we're doing is having
better control over our historical copies.
So, say you have two copies of the same
code made at different points in time.
How can you compare them?
Hop on over to the next video and
you'll find out.